DOCSP-45110: queries subsections (#80)
mongodb/docs-mongoid: source/interact-data/query-cache.txt

Enable Query Caching
--------------------

In this section, you can learn how to enable the query caching feature
in your application. You can enable the query cache by using the
driver's namespace or {+odm+}'s namespace.

Automatic
~~~~~~~~~

The {+ruby-driver+} provides middleware to automatically enable the
query cache for Rack web requests and Active Job job runs. See the
:ref:`Query Cache Rack Middleware <query-cache-middleware>` section of
the Configuration guide for instructions.

.. note::
    
   Query cache middleware does not apply to code run outside web
   requests or jobs.

Manual
~~~~~~

To enable the query cache manually for a specific code segment, you can
run your code within the following block:

.. code-block:: ruby

   Mongo::QueryCache.cache do
     # Include code here ...
   end

You can explicitly enable and disable the query cache, but we recommend
using the block form in the preceding code example. The following code
demonstrates how to enable and disable the query cache:

.. code-block:: ruby

   begin
     Mongo::QueryCache.enabled = true
     # Include code here
   ensure
     Mongo::QueryCache.enabled = false
   end

> Cache the Result of the first Method

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Cache the Result of the ``first`` Method
```

Author: Avoiding using monospace in titles per [style guide](https://www.mongodb.com/docs/meta/style-guide/style/titles-and-headings/#:~:text=Don%27t%20apply%20font%20treatments%20(bold%2C%20italics%2C%20or%20monospace)%20to%20text%20in%20a%20title%20or%20heading.)

------------------------------------

Calling the ``first`` method on a model class uses an ascending sort on
the ``_id`` field when returning the result. This might produce unexpected
behavior if you enable query caching.

For example, if you call the ``all`` method on a model class before
calling ``first``, you might expect the ``first`` method to use the

> cached results from ``all``. However, because of the sort that {+odm+}
> applies to the second call, both methods query the database and

Reviewer: ```suggestion
cached results from ``all``. However, because {+odm+} applies 
a sort to the second call, both methods query the database and
```

separately cache results.

To use the cached results when calling the ``first`` method, call
``all.to_a.first`` on the model class, as shown in the following example
code:

.. code-block::

>    Band.all.to_a.first

Reviewer: S: might just be my unfamiliarity with ``to_a``, but can you briefly explain what this code does?

.. _mongoid-query-cache:

===========
Query Cache
===========

.. facet::
   :name: genre
   :values: reference

.. meta::
   :keywords: ruby framework, odm, memory, storage, execution

.. contents:: On this page
   :local:
   :backlinks: none
   :depth: 2
   :class: singlecol

Overview
--------

In this guide, you can learn about **query caching**. The
query cache saves the results of previous find and aggregation queries
and reuses them in the future. This prevents {+odm+} from performing 
the queries again, increasing application performance and reducing
the database load.

To learn more about this feature, see :ruby:`Query Cache
</reference/query-cache/>` in the {+ruby-driver+} documentation.

Enable Query Caching
--------------------

In this section, you can learn how to enable the query caching feature
in your application. You can enable the query cache by using the
driver's namespace or {+odm+}'s namespace.

Automatic
~~~~~~~~~

The {+ruby-driver+} provides middleware to automatically enable the

> query cache for Rack web requests and Active Job job runs. See the
> :ref:`Query Cache Rack Middleware <query-cache-middleware>` section of
> the Configuration guide for instructions.

Reviewer 2: s: Link text should begin with an explanation of the purpose of the link: https://www.mongodb.com/docs/meta/style-guide/style/links-and-cross-references/#make-link-text-clear

```suggestion
query cache for Rack web requests and Active Job job runs. For instructions 
on automatically enabling the query cache, see the :ref:`Query Cache Rack Middleware <query-cache middleware>` section of the configuration guide. 
```
